So, I just finished going through and
analyzing over 900 posted and closed
deals for AI services inside of Maker
School. And what I want to do in this
video is show you three patterns that
separate people that are stuck at $500
projects from those that close deals
that are worth over $60,000. And I'm not
just throwing around random numbers
here. This community is the largest AI
automation community by revenue
currently on school. We got over 2,500
members. The entire group is singularly
focused on customer acquisition. And I
personally review every single breakdown
that comes through the system. what I
discovered is probably going to piss a
ton of people off because a lot of what
you think about selling AI and no code
is actually backwards. Uh so, three
things. First, there's a specific
pattern to all of the major wins that
the majority of consultants miss, and
that's what I'm going to cover. Uh
second, I also want to talk about a
counterintuitive strategy that increases
your average order value a ton. And
third, there are a few obvious AI
services that make a lot more money than
others. So, I want to cover which ones
they are, too. Let me show you. So, to
be clear, I have access to something
nobody else in the automation space has.
It is real data from more than 900
breakdowns of sales. These are actual AI
systems that people have sold to real
clients, including everything from small
$200 kind of disasters to full
enterprise systems that have sold for
more than $60,000. It's not speculation
or theory. It is probably about as close
to the ground truth data as you can get
in terms of the current state of the
industry. And when you look at this data
and you put it in front of you, there
are three major patterns that emerge.
The first is what I'm going to call the
revenue proximity principle. It is by
far the biggest factor that determines
whether or not you sell a system for
$2,000 or $20,000. So after looking at
all these businesses, we found that the
systems that touch the front end, which
means lead generation, sales, and
customer acquisition, average 350%
higher project values than systems that
solely touch the back end, which
typically refers to admin, automation,
HR, payment systems, documents, just
stuff that's not as connected to money.
The reason this happens is probably
because it is much easier to justify a
higher cost when that cost is more
closely tied to revenue versus savings.
The reason why because you can only save
100% of the money that you make, whereas
you can theoretically make thousands of
percentage points on a revenue
investment. Now, Leftclick, which if you
don't know is our AI consulting agency,
we found the same thing. We worked with
everything from small to mid-size
businesses to multi-billion dollar
investment portfolios. And literally all
companies, whether they are small or in
the higher end of the scale, spend much
more money for systems that improve at
the front end than they do the back end.
We found this out pretty quickly. And as
a result, we now almost exclusively
focus on revenue generating systems
simply because why would I do the same
work for $10,000 that I could do and
make $50,000 instead? If you build
systems that help customers make even
one more sale per month and your
customers customers generate let's say
$10,000 from that sale, your services
are now generating $10,000 to $15,000 a
month in value. Uh so it is very easy
for you to charge a sizable percentage
of that in terms of revenue. Let's say
$3,000. If your client looks at the
$3,000 a month that you are charging and
then the $15,000 a month that you are
generating, they see a 5x ROI. And there
are very few things in life that are
going to deliver a return on investment
like that. So, in general, the front-end
promises we saw that did well in Maker
School were specific and tied to money.
They were things like, "I'll generate
you 40 qualified leads per month," or,
"This system will get you a 30%
improvement to your conversion rate."
Whereas, the back-end promises that did
not do so well tended to be quite vague
and tied mostly to time or some other
small savings. You can think of that as
stuff like 10 hours saved per week or
maybe uh 80% reduction in errors. The
worst one is always like improved
efficiency. It's like, what the hell
does that mean? So here's what some
front-end systems look like in practice.
For lead genen, you have cold email
systems, speedtole systems, ad and UGC
automation systems, uh lead scraping and
go to market automation systems, AI
content generation systems. For sales,
we have CRM automations that route hot
leads instantly. You have proposal
generators to close deals faster, AI
lead qualifying systems, asset
generators, and so on and so forth. And
then for conversion optimization, you
have personalized follow-up and nurture
systems, automatic lead scoring systems.
Uh all of these systems are ones that
when you sell, you can justify direct
return on investment, which makes them
easier to sell and then also allows you
to charge more for that. If you compare
that to back-end systems, stuff like
inventory management or employee
scheduling or maybe document processing,
these might still save time or cut
costs, but they don't generate new
revenue, which means it's harder to
justify, it's harder to price, and
ultimately it's harder to sell. Business
owners at the end of the day are going
to pay anything as long as they have
guaranteed revenue growth. They'll
negotiate everything else. But if you
can put revenue in front of them
because, you know, any business has
margins. Revenue tends to be multiples
on the margin. They're more than happy
to pay it. The second is what I'm
calling the recurring revenue
multiplier. One of the biggest case
studies in the group made over 62,000
bucks in 3 months, which sounds
absolutely bonkers, especially given
that they were new to selling AI. But
the main reason they won was they
understood recurring revenue. Now,
recurring revenue is insane. If you land
a onetime $5,000 client, that equals
$5,000, right? But if you land a
recurring $2,500 per month client, you
would make 30,000 bucks in year one, and
that is assuming zero upselles or
anything, which is a pretty crazy
assumption to make. So yeah, pretty much
every major win over 20,000 bucks
involves some form of recurring revenue.
The guy that closed 62,000, Michael, had
more than $11,000 per month in
recurring, which means over 3 months
that is 33 grand. Meaning after that
client, he only had to actually close
29K or a little over $9,000 a month in
new revenue, which is obviously a lot
more achievable than $20,000 every
single month. Could talk all day about
why, but recurring services are what
makes the majority of your money in any
agency or service-based business over
the long term. And also a key thing in
consulting and especially in building
systems is that once you have installed
a bunch of systems in a business aka you
are managing their legion uh their sales
you know their customer coms and so on
and so forth you have essentially become
infrastructure which is very sticky. You
know in general infrastructure does not
get replaced for a minor cost saving
like most other things would which gives
you way more leverage for future sales
and upsells and crossells and so on. You
know when a client needs something new
they're not going to shop around their
network. they're just going to ask you
because you understand their business
better than many other people and in
many cases you actually understand it
probably better than they do themselves.
The last major finding was the dominance
of foot in the door. Pretty much all of
the biggest wins were from people who
started fast with very imperfect $200 to
$500 projects. The first couple of posts
they'd make about their wins were
typically not very impressive at all and
sometimes involved clunky ass scopes for
relatively little pay. Uh but these
people consistently outperformed people
that spent months negotiating some
perfect $5,500 deal. something like
three times over. So they made over 300%
more than people that spend a lot of
time trying to figure out high-quality
deals to actually get paid what they are
feeling that they are worth. So I'm now
taken to calling this a paradox. Uh it
is the paradox of speed. And I've
personally seen this in leftclick many a
time. It's a big chunk of why I always
just tell people in maker school and on
YouTube just get going. Cuz there's so
much you don't know you don't know that
trying to plan for everything, trying to
scope out every single project to its
fullest extent is silly and kind of
impractical. It is way better instead to
start and then worry about where you
land after you launch, even if that is a
little scary to you right now. One of
our first clients is actually a project
I won for somewhere between 500 to 600
bucks on Upwork and I later upsold them
to a monthly recurring service and made
over $16,000. Okay, so lots of similar
stories and a lot of the time initial
projects, especially those ones that are
posted on jobs platforms like Upwork or
Fiverr, are literally there just to feel
you out. You'll quickly realize is the
majority of the competition blows. So
when you demonstrate high value, when
you demonstrate that you do not blow,
clients that you work with tend to want
to hold on to you. And it becomes very
simple to upsell to some bigger service
later on. Also, my final point is that
by doing this, you will not only learn
important skills that you can use to
bundle a bigger package later on. You'll
learn things like how clients uh
communicate requirements. You'll learn
how to handle scope creep without
destroying a relationship, which happens
all the time. Uh or what happens when an
integration fails and maybe a client's
pissed off at you. Also, you learn how
to deliver under pressure and you put
yourself in situations where clients
might question the quality of your work,
which is very humbling. Uh, people that
close their first project within 30
days, even if those deals were small, we
literally had a few for 50 bucks,
average over five times the posted
revenue on Maker School versus those
that did not. Okay, so these three
principles don't just add, they multiply
together. When you use revenue
proximity, you get to charge way more.
When you use recurring revenue, you
obviously get to build long-term income
and cash flow. And when you use foot in
the door, you build experience rapidly
and also improve your confidence, which
lets you charge more. The math after all
is said and done is something like a 15
times performance gap. Which means if
you understand and implement these,
instead of making $1,000 per unit time
of your work, like a lot of people you
probably see on Reddit that are bitching
about how hard life is and how this
niche sucks, you could make $15,000.
That's real money. So, I thought I'd
leave you with an actionable plan. So,
this wasn't just a fluffy, you know,
YouTube think piece. Uh, here's what you
can do immediately to improve your AI
offers. In week one, you should audit
your current offer against the revenue
proximity principle. Are you building
back-end systems? You can still do that.
Just tie them to front-end results. Are
you already building front end? Then
your job is mostly about quantifying the
revenue impact, which you can
guesstimate if you have to. Just bundle
in a money back guarantee or something
and then put together, you know, a high
quality front-end offer. In week two,
you should design a recurring service
component around your existing skill set
and offer. Don't just build a new skill
set from scratch. Try monetizing your
current skill and then just attach a
monthly price tag to it. I have lots of
videos on retainers if you guys just
want to check out other ones on this
channel. In week three, you should start
some sort of daily actionable outreach
and feel free to take on whatever you
can, even if the rates lower than you
might be comfortable with right now. Uh
don't wait for perfection. And then in
week four, you should iterate based off
that real client feedback and make your
offer better and then just increase your
prices. My rule of thumb is 30%. Okay,
if you like this and want actual
analysis of these wins, check out Maker
School. You can find them all down
below. I'm tracking what actually makes
you money for tons of different
services, whether it's AI or automation
or consulting or operations. Maker
School nowadays is not even about
selling a particular thing. Is mostly
about how to build the shape of a
successful business. And if you guys run
a company and want help employing the
same sorts of front-end offers that I
talked about in this video, book a call
with my team. We've worked with
multi-billion dollar companies to help
drive growth. We'd be happy to chat.
With that said, I hope you guys all got
some value from this video. Have a
lovely rest of the day, and I'll catch
all y'all in the next one. Back.